We're not worried about that. Just trying to find
out a little bit. Listen, Jackson, you mentioned
earlier that your son went to Allen Academy. And
then went to A&M. And then went to A&M. Could you
tell us something about the education system? Has
it changed very much from the time that your son
went to school to now? Odella, I'm not sure I could
help you at that point. Because I just... When he
went to Allen Academy, see, that was the military
too. And that helped him a lot to go to A&M. In fact,
he was next to the best freshman, real freshman on
the campus. And it just made him sick that he walked
through the vest, stood up all afternoon. But he
said, brother, my thumb just got so it wouldn't
work. He stood up. But he was strictly military.
But I don't know how that thing's run now. See, I
can't make that comparison because I just don't
have any connection with it now. I have access to
it, but it really just doesn't go places by itself.
I could go to anything on the campus, but as far as
having access to it. But I don't go because you just
don't go alone. And I can't make that comparison. I
just don't know how. I don't think they're near as
strict as they used to be. Well, what was the reason
for Allen Academy to be out there in the first
place? Do you have any idea? Well, they were for
younger boys, boys from wealthy homes and broken
homes and things like that. The parents just felt
like they wanted them in a private school. A lot of
them were able to send them. Others, you hate to say
it, but they were from broken homes. We sent
Clarkie there because Mr. Allen was a Methodist,
and he,
well, he just did a lot for the Methodist boys, just
out of the goodness of his heart. We never could
have sent him there because it was an exclusive
school and a very good school, a very good school.
And a lot of the parents sent them there because it
was kind of a preparatory school for, you know,
from high school. to college is a pretty big jump,
you see. And that was a junior college. It was a step
between high school, and then Allen Academy, and
then college. It's an awful big jump from high
school to college. I don't know how a lot of them
ever make it. I'm a firm believer in a junior
college. And that's what it was. And they weren't
there. Because so many of these little old
freshmen come here that right out of high school,
they just can't make it. It's too big a jump. And as I
say, a lot of people sent them for that preparatory
work for college, and others sent them because
they were from broken homes, and they didn't
mortgage a small amount. They had to send them
somewhere, those that were left with their
mothers. You see, their mothers had to get work or
something like that. It's the only child you give
your mother. But it was a very good school. Do you
think maybe some of the inflow that came in had
something to do with Allen Academy? People coming
in from, say, the surrounding towns? Yes, I think
it did. I think it did. Not as much so as the other
class, I don't believe. Because I'll tell you why.
The high schools here were good. The people that
came here to make their homes here, you see, sent
them to high school. to the high schools in Bryan.
Then you have one out here. That's why I said, look,
Clarkie took two years at the high school in Bryan
before he went to Allen County. He did go to the high
school in Bryan two years, and then he wanted to go
to Allen County, and Mr. Allen wanted him there. He
had a very fine school soul. That's when he
switched. And then that kind of got him ready for
A&M. But
I think the Bryan High School has always been a good
high school. And I think the people that live in
Bryan, I don't think they felt the necessity of it,
you see, because they had a good school there. They
had excellent teachers. It's always been a good
high school. Now I think A&M kind of. Matches wits
with them. But we didn't even have a high school.
And now don't they have three or four at A&M?
Several, I understand. I don't know how many
elementary schools they have. But the kids on the
campus didn't even have a place to go. Those
professors' children, they met in a little frame
building over there. And I think they did have good
teachers, but they didn't have anything to work
with. The teachers were the professors' wives,
you see. And most of those professors married old
maid school teachers. And they were smart, but
they didn't know anything about kids. You know, it
takes an old maid to tell you how to raise kids. You
only have the one child in the house? That's the
one. But Bob, he makes up for a dozen. Does he live
here in Bryan? No, he doesn't. He lives in Houston.
He lives in Houston.
But he was an Aggie from here to there. And I am, too.
There's not much of me, but it's all Aggies. But did
the college draw in on a lot of these small outside,
you know, like what is this out here? Steep Hollow?
Yes, quite a few. But I have to say, I believe Blinn
College at Brenham. gets more of that class than we
do on county expenses. Glenn is so much cheaper
than A&M. Much cheaper than A&M, and a lot of them
drive and go. They just commute and go. And it was
cheaper than paying dormitory fees and things
like that. No, not as many, I don't think, as
should, as they should. But I think that's the
reason. I think that's the reason. Now, they seem
like they got more from Caldwell than anywhere. A
lot of people from Caldwell. See, it's close. They
can commute there, too. But these other outlying
posts, it was just about tit for tat, and they took
the cheapest one. And then Glenn offers a night
course, and they could... They could do that too,
though they couldn't go in daytime, they could
take
a night course or two, and they got started that
way. Since you as a preacher's wife, I imagine
y'all came across or seen some of the sore spots or
the, you know, not so happy spots, you might say,
I'd say Brian, as it was growing, it's Yes, we saw
them more than once. And yet, I don't believe
there's ever been the trouble here that a lot of
other places have had. They seem to have... Each
class, they just seemed to have accepted
everybody. I think one reason for that, and I hate
to say it, is that they didn't mix and mingle. Each
class just kind of stayed to themselves, and they
didn't cause anybody in trouble. And that's
unfortunate. They should have been drawn
together.
And the boys on the campus, that worried us a lot.
these foreign boys that came to A&M, and now the
Negroes, you know, we have quite a few of them now,
but you never see them with anybody else. They just
go with themselves, only in the field of
athletics. They seem to be on equal ground in
athletics, but haven't you noticed it on the
campus? They just go in cliques with themselves. I
don't know what would happen if they mingled and
fraternized with each other. I don't know what the
score would be there, because they don't do it. And
we had three or four of those neighbors to join our
church. They'd come, and if there's a seat by
themselves anywhere in that house, they'd get
over there in that corner by themselves. And the
first thing we knew, they just quit coming. Why? We
don't know, because everybody was
cartridge-filling. I think that people went out
of their way to make them feel welcome. But they
didn't feel. And then our West Foundation has a
very good recreation program there. Very good.
And they insist on the students. It's open to
everybody. But the Negroes never come. The
Negroes never come. And it's unfortunate.
Because it's there for them. But they don't come.
Why is that? But I think that I don't know what would
happen if they all got together Maybe it would be
friction.
And yet they get along so well in their athletics,
you know. And they make no discrimination at all,
the coaches or the boys either, I don't think. You
may know more about that than I do, but with my
observation, I don't think they discriminate at
all.